SOURCE_TYPE: pdf
SOURCE_FILE: trendingPaper4.pdf
CHAR_COUNT: 89670
---

1
DreamVideo-Omni: Omni-Motion Controlled
Multi-Subject Video Customization with Latent
Identity Reinforcement Learning
Yujie Wei∗ , Xinyu Liu∗ , Shiwei Zhang† , Hangjie Yuan , Jinbo Xing , Zhekai Chen , Xiang Wang ,
Haonan Qiu , Rui Zhao , Yutong Feng , Ruihang Chu , Yingya Zhang, Yike Guo , Fellow, IEEE,
Xihui Liu , Member, IEEE and Hongming Shan (cid:66) , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract-While large-scale diffusion models have revolu- textual descriptions, the demand for real-world applications
tionized video synthesis, achieving precise control over both necessitates more granular control. Specifically, users often
multi-subject identity and multi-granularity motion remains a
require the generation of videos that simultaneously preserve
significant challenge. Recent attempts to bridge this gap often
the identities of multiple subjects while adhering to compresuffer from limited motion granularity, control ambiguity, and
identity degradation, leading to suboptimal performance on hensive motion control, including global object motion, local
identitypreservationandmotioncontrol.Inthiswork,wepresent limb motion, and camera movements.
DreamVideo-Omni, a unified framework enabling harmonious Despite the remarkable advances in controllable video genmulti-subject customization with omni-motion control via a
eration,achievingthisdualobjective-robustmulti-subjectID
progressive two-stage training paradigm. In the first stage, we
preservation and precise, multi-granularity motion controlintegratecomprehensivecontrolsignalsforjointtraining,encompassing subject appearances, global motion, local dynamics, and remains an open challenge. Existing approaches typically
cameramovements.Toensurerobustandprecisecontrollability, divergeintotwoindependentresearchdirections.Ononehand,
we introduce a condition-aware 3D rotary positional embedding subject-driven methods [10], [11], [12] utilize adapters or
tocoordinateheterogeneousinputsandahierarchicalmotionintuning-free mechanisms to inject appearance, yet they often
jectionstrategytoenhanceglobalmotionguidance.Furthermore,
lackthecapacityforprecisespatialcontrol,resultinginvideos
to resolve multi-subject ambiguity, we introduce group and role
embeddings to explicitly anchor motion signals to specific iden- where subjects drift uncontrollably or remain static. On the
tities, effectively disentangling complex scenes into independent other hand, motion-controlled methods [13], [14], [15], [16]
controllable instances. In the second stage, to mitigate identity excel at guiding movement via bounding boxes or trajectories
degradation,wedesignalatentidentityrewardfeedbacklearning
but fail to achieve omni-motion control and customize userparadigmbytrainingalatentidentityrewardmodeluponaprespecified subjects, limiting their practical applicability.
trained video diffusion backbone. This provides motion-aware
identity rewards in the latent space, prioritizing identity preser- Recentworksattempttointegratethesecapabilitieswithina
vationalignedwithhumanpreferences.Supportedbyourcurated unified framework, aiming to synthesize videos that faithfully
large-scaledatasetandthecomprehensiveDreamOmniBenchfor preserve subject identities while adhering to specified motion
multi-subject and omni-motion control evaluation, DreamVideopatterns [17], [18], [19], [20]. However, these methods ofOmni demonstrates superior performance in generating highten yield suboptimal performance due to the intrinsic tradequality videos with precise controllability. Our project webpage:
https://dreamvideo-omni.github.io. off between subject preservation and motion control. This
limitation manifests primarily in three aspects: 1) Limited
Index Terms-Video Diffusion Models, Video Customization,
Motion Control Granularity. Most existing methods rely on
Motion Control, Reinforcement Learning
a single type of motion signal, such as bounding boxes [17],
depth maps [18], [19], or sparse trajectories [20], to guide
I. INTRODUCTION generation. This restricted conditioning fails to support the
simultaneous control of global object placement, fine-grained
The landscape of video generation has been revolutionized
local dynamics, and camera movement, thereby limiting the
by the advent of diffusion models [1], [2], [3], [4], [5],
flexibility and realism of the generated videos. 2) Ambiguity
[6], [7], [8], [9]. While these foundation models demonstrate
in Motion Control. Current approaches typically inject all
impressivecapabilityinsynthesizinghigh-fidelityvideosfrom
conditioning signals indiscriminately without explicit binding
∗EqualContribution †ProjectLeader (cid:66)CorrespondingAuthor mechanisms [18], [19]. In multi-subject scenarios, this leads
Email: Yujie Wei yjwei22@m.fudan.edu.cn and Xinyu Liu to severe ambiguity, as the model struggles to discern which
xliugd@connect.ust.hk motionpatterncorrespondstowhichspecificreferencesubject.
YujieWeiandHongmingShanarewithFudanUniversity.XinyuLiuand
This confusion is further exacerbated when integrating multiYike Guo are with The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
ShiweiZhang,JinboXing,XiangWang,YutongFeng,RuihangChu,Yingya granularmotioncontrols.3)IdentityDegradation.Compared
Zhangare withTongyiLab, AlibabaGroup. HangjieYuanis withZhejiang toindependentsubjectcustomization,introducingmotionconUniversity.ZhekaiChenandXihuiLiuarewithMMLab,TheUniversityof
trol often compromises identity fidelity. This stems from the
HongKong.HaonanQiuiswithNanyangTechnologicalUniversity.RuiZhao
iswithShowLab,NationalUniversityofSingapore. divergent nature of the objectives: identity preservation en6202
raM
]VC.sc[
1v75221.3062:viXra
A man engaging in a pleasant conversation with another man. They are smiling and
Multi-Subject occasionally gesturing with their hands, … Their mouths move naturally, vividly simulating a
Customization real-life exchange. The entire scene is illuminated by meticulously crafted cinematic lighting,
creating a warm and intimate atmosphere. The soft light gently falls upon both of them …
Half body view of a foreign white manand womantaking selfie outdoors. Male wearing a light shirt, a
MotionControl+
black hat, holding a camera, female wearing a brown top, carrying a bag, two smiling, the background is
CameraMovement
a cityscape, including bridges and buildings, the lens moves, and the video is shot in a head-up lens.
A little boy playing soccer on a green grass field. The
Subject Customization
boy is wearing a yellow sports uniform and is
+ Omni-MotionControl
intently chasingafter a soccer ball. …
A … little girl interacting with a puppyin the park. The
Multi-Subject
little girl, wearing an orange jacket and black pants, is
Customization +
sittingon the grass …The puppy … stands up and
Omni-MotionControl
stretches out its front paws, waiting for the food …
Fig. 1. Zero-shot multi-subject customization and omni-motion control achieved by DreamVideo-Omni. Our method enables seamless multi-subject
customization,precisemotionandcameracontrol,andsimultaneoussingle/multi-subjectcustomizationwithomni-motioncontrol.
couragespixel-levelconsistencywithastaticreferenceimage, should prioritize perceptual alignment with human experience
whereas motion control necessitates dynamic pixel variation rather than relying solely on low-level reconstruction metrics.
and temporal evolution to render movement. Standard difBased on these insights, we propose DreamVideo-Omni,
fusion reconstruction losses are insufficient to reconcile this
a unified framework enabling harmonious multi-subject cusconflict,leadingtodegradationoffine-grainedidentitydetails,
tomization and omni-motion control through a progressive
particularly when synthesizing large-amplitude motions.
two-stage training paradigm illustrated in Fig. 1. In the first
To address these issues, we posit that it is pivotal to simul- stage, referred to as omni-motion and identity supervised finetaneously enhance motion controllability and identity preser- tuning,weintegratecomprehensivecontrolsignals,formulated
vation. First, motion control signals must be explicitly bound asstructuredtripletsof⟨ReferenceSubject,GlobalBox,Local
totheircorrespondingreferencesubjectstoresolveambiguity, Trajectory⟩, into a single DiT architecture. To effectively prothereby facilitating precise, multi-granular control. Second, to cess these heterogeneous inputs, we design a condition-aware
furtherreinforceidentityfidelity,thelearningobjectiveshould 3D Rotary Positional Embedding (RoPE) that assigns distinct
be aligned with human preferences. We recognize that subject spatiotemporal indices to diverse conditions, facilitating faster
customization is inherently subjective and distinct from rigid convergenceandenhancedtrainingstability.Toguaranteeprepixel-wise correspondence, as a subject's visual appearance cise global motion control, we employ a hierarchical motion
naturally varies with viewpoints and poses, yet their identity injection strategy, infusing bounding box conditions into each
remains consistent. Consequently, the optimization process transformer block to reinforce spatial guidance. Furthermore,
to resolve control ambiguity in multi-subject scenarios, we paradigm.WetrainaVDM-basedlatentidentityrewardmodel
introducelearnablegroupandroleembeddingsthatdistinguish to evaluate motion-aware identity preservation, effectively
distinct control units and specify signal modalities, explicitly mitigating identity degradation under large motion. 4) We
anchoring motion signals to their corresponding identities. establish DreamOmni Bench, a new benchmark consisting
Collectively, these architectural designs establish a foundation of over 1K curated videos with comprehensive annotations,
for integrating subject customization with controllable motion designed to simultaneously quantify multi-subject consistency
generation within a unified framework. andmotioncontrolprecision.Wealsodesignacomprehensive
In the second stage, referred to as latent identity reward data processing pipeline for multi-subject customization and
feedback learning, we move beyond standard diffusion losses omni-motion control tasks. 5) Extensive experimental results
and employ a reward feedback strategy within the latent demonstrate our framework's superiority over state-of-the-art
space to mitigate identity degradation during dynamic motion methods in both identity preservation and motion control.
generation. Specifically, we train a specialized Latent Identity
Reward Model (LIRM) to provide rewards. Departing from
II. RELATEDWORK
previous methods that rely on static image encoders (e.g.,
CLIP [21] or DINO [22]) as reward models, which overlook Customized video generation. Customized image generatemporal dynamics, our LIRM is constructed upon a pre- tion has garnered growing attention [23], [24], [25], [26],
trained Video Diffusion Model (VDM), yielding two advan- [27], [28], [29], [30], [31], [32], [33], [34]. Recently, many
tages: 1) Motion-Aware Identity Assessment: By leveraging works explore customized video generation using a few subthe VDM's inherent spatiotemporal priors, the reward model ject or facial images [35], [36], [37], [38], [39], [40], [41],
evaluates video-level identity consistency that integrates mo- [42], [43], [44], [45], [46], while several works study the
tion dynamics, penalizing static "copy-paste" artifacts while challenging multi-subject video customization task [47], [48],
encouraging robust identity preservation under large motion. [49], [50]. For example, ConsisID [45] leverages frequency
2) Computationally Efficient Training: Computing rewards decompositiontodecouplefacialcontoursanddetailsinvideo
in the latent space bypasses expensive VAE decoding. This DiT for consistent identity across frames. For multi-subject
enables direct gradient backpropagation from reward models customization, VideoMage [51] and Video Alchemist [49]
to the video generation model, fully leveraging the potential extend single-subject methods to open-set personalization,
of reward feedback learning. improvingmulti-subject identityconsistency withouttest-time
Remarkably, this progressive two-stage training paradigm tuning. However, these methods focus on independent subject
enables the seamless composition of multiple tasks while nat- customization and often struggle with "copy-paste" artifacts
urally facilitating the emergence of novel generative abilities. and limited controllability, restricting their applicability in
Despite being built upon a text-to-video base model, our real-world scenarios. Considering that spatial content and
framework spontaneously unlocks zero-shot image-to-video temporal dynamics are two essential components of videos,
generation and first-frame-conditioned trajectory control. DreamVideo [11] customizes both subject and motion by
Finally, to support the training of our unified framework, training two adapters and combining them at inference, while
we curate a large-scale dataset for multi-subject customiza- MotionBooth [52] fine-tunes a model to learn subjects and
tion and omni-motion control, which comprises 2M video edits attention maps to control motion during inference. More
clips, enriched with multi-subject reference images, bounding recently, Tora2 [20] integrates trajectory control into subboxes, and trajectory conditions. Beyond training resources, ject customization by introducing a decoupled personalization
we also address the critical lack of comprehensive evaluation extractor and a gated self-attention mechanism. However,
protocols. Existing benchmarks either isolate customization thesemethodsrelypredominantlyonstandarddiffusionlosses
fromcontrollablegeneration[11],[10]orfocusexclusivelyon and suffer from the trade-off between motion control and
simplepointtrajectories[16].Tobridgethisgap,weconstruct identity preservation, often resulting in identity degradation
the DreamOmni Bench, a holistic evaluation suite composed underlarge-amplitudemotions.Incontrast,DreamVideo-Omni
of 1,027 high-quality, real-world videos. This benchmark effectivelyresolvesthisdilemmabyaligningidentitypreservaexplicitly categorizes single- and multi-subject scenarios and tion with human preferences. By introducing a latent identity
is equipped with dense annotations, enabling the first unified reward feedback learning paradigm and training a specialized
evaluation of identity preservation and complex motion con- latent reward model, our approach ensures harmonious multitrollability in zero-shot settings. subject customization with omni-motion control.
In summary, our contributions are five-fold: 1) We present Motion control in video generation. Recent advancements
DreamVideo-Omni, the first unified framework that har- invideogenerationfocusonenhancingmotiondynamicsusing
moniously integrates multi-subject customization with omni- extra control signals [53], [54], [55], [56], [57], [58], [59],
motioncontrolwithinasingleDiTarchitecture.2)Wepropose [60], [61], [62], [63], [64], [65]. Many motion customization
specializedarchitecturalcomponentstoensureprecisecontrol- methods learn motions from reference videos [66], [67],
lability. Specifically, we introduce group and role embeddings [68], [69], [70], but require complicated fine-tuning during
to resolve multi-subject ambiguity, condition-aware 3D RoPE inference.Toalleviatethis,sometraining-freeapproaches[71],
to coordinate heterogeneous inputs for stable training, and [72], [73], [74], [75] employ attention manipulation or guidhierarchicalmotioninjectiontoenhanceglobalmotioncontrol. ance to achieve zero-shot control. However, these methods
3) We design a latent identity reward feedback learning often sacrifice motion precision and temporal consistency in
complex scenarios. In contrast, several works use trajectories onmulti-subjectappearances,globalandlocalobjectmotions,
or coordinates as additional conditions to train a motion andcameramovements,enablingflexiblecompositionalvideo
control module [76], [13], [14], [77], [16], [78], [79], [15]. generation without test-time fine-tuning. The overall pipeline
For example, Motion Prompting [57] conditions generation is shown in Fig. 2, which follows a progressive two-stage
on spatio-temporal trajectories for camera control and motion training paradigm. In the first omni-motion and identity sutransfer,withpromptexpansionforcomplexinputs.MagicMo- pervisedfine-tuningstage,wetrainanall-in-onevideoDiTto
tion[80]usesobjectmasksandboundingboxestocontrolmo- integrate heterogeneous control signals via hierarchical injection, trained on a pretrained image-to-video diffusion model. tion, condition-aware 3D RoPE, and group/role embeddings,
Wan-Move[16]usesdensepointtrajectoriesprojectedintola- effectively resolving multi-subject ambiguity and enabling
tentspacetopropagatefeatures,enablingmotioncontrolbased fine-grained motion control. In the second latent identity
onthefirstframeinimage-to-videomodels.Nonetheless,they reinforcementlearningstage,weemploylatentidentityreward
areincapableofdeliveringcomprehensivefine-grainedmotion feedback learning, where a specialized latent identity reward
control, such as the simultaneous control of global motion, model provides direct identity supervision on intermediate
localdynamics,andcameramovements.Moreover,theyfailto noisylatents,efficientlybypassingthecomputationallyexpenincorporate user-specified subject appearances, which restricts sive VAE decoding. In the following sections, we detail this
their real-world applicability. In contrast, our DreamVideo- two-stageparadigminSecs.III-AandIII-B.Subsequently,we
Omni unifies user-specified subject customization and multi- describe the dataset construction in Sec. III-C and introduce
granularmotioncontrolintoasingleframework,incorporating our newly constructed DreamOmni Bench in Sec. III-D.
a binding mechanism to explicitly resolve motion ambiguity
and ensure precise control.
A. Omni-Motion and Identity Supervised Fine-Tuning
Identity-based reinforcement learning. To ensure identity
This subsection will dive into the key designs of
consistency in customized video generation, recent research
DreamVideo-Omni, including model architecture, task design,
has increasingly integrated reinforcement learning into optiand details of the designed components.
mizationframeworks[81],[82],[83],[84].Forinstance,MagicID [81] employs DPO [85] to enhance text-to-video identity 1) Model Architecture and Task Design: As illustrated in
stability, though it still necessitates costly per-identity LoRA Fig. 2, we instantiate an all-in-one framework by adapting a
adaptation and test-time fine-tuning. More recently, Identity- pre-trained text-to-video DiT [8]. Our model is jointly trained
GRPO [83] leverages human preference-driven GRPO [86] to on a comprehensive set of tasks, including single- and multipreserve stable facial features during complex interactions by subject customization, global and local object motion control,
constructingmulti-characterrewardmodels.IPRO[82]adopts and camera movement control. To enable precise and flexible
theRewardFeedbackLearning(ReFL)[87]paradigm.Itback- composition of these tasks, we carefully craft four compact,
propagates gradients from similarity-based rewards directly interaction-friendly conditioning signals.
into the diffusion model, bypassing explicit reward model 1) Subject appearance. We use one reference image per
training or identity-specific tuning. However, both Identity- subject and segment it to obtain the image with a blank
GRPO and IPRO require decoding latents into pixel space for background, preserving distinct identity features while
rewardcalculation,whichincursheavyGPUoverheadandre- reducing background interference.
strictsfeedbacktothefinaldenoisingsteps,resultinginlimited 2) Global object motion. We employ scene-anchored
performance improvements. In contrast, we conduct identity- bounding boxes to indicate global object motion. These
driven reinforcement learning directly within the latent space, boxes serve as an intuitive proxy for scene-level spatial
significantlyreducingcomputationaloverhead.Whilethevery attributes, effectively capturing object position, scale,
recent general video generation method PRFL [88] also intro- aspect ratio, and relative depth. In practice, users can
duces latent-space reward modeling to mitigate computational simply specify start and end boxes with optional intercosts, it primarily focuses on optimizing general motion qual- mediateboxestoachieveflexibleglobalmotioncontrol.
ity, lacking the capacity to distinguish and preserve intricate 3) Local object motion. We represent local object motion
subject identities. Unlike PRFL, we process the generated usingsparsepoint-wisetrajectories.Comparedtoglobal
video and the reference image in parallel under varying noise motion, local object motion targets finer-grained, comlevels, explicitly leveraging the clean reference latents as plexin-placedynamics(e.g.,limbraises,headturns)that
queries to attend to the noisy video latents for computing enrich per-object motion details. This point-based conidentity rewards. This design substantially enhances identity trol flexibly captures complex non-rigid deformations.
customization capabilities by incorporating identity informa- 4) Camera movement. We also use point-wise trajectotionacrossthefullrangeoftimesteps,therebyfullyunleashing ries to achieve camera movement control. Prior works
the potential of ReFL in customization tasks. typically rely on explicit 3D camera parameters and
auxiliary datasets for training [13], [19]. While effective, these approaches increase training cost and hinder
III. OURMEHTOD:DREAMVIDEO-OMNI
usability. In contrast, we observe that camera moveGiven a set of reference images and motion signals (i.e., ment can be effectively induced by applying pointbounding boxes and trajectories), our DreamVideo-Omni em- wisetrajectoriestobackgroundpixels.Thisallowsusto
ploysaunifiedvideodiffusiontransformertojointlycondition unify camera and local motion control under the same
Stage 1: Omni-Motion and Identity Supervised Fine-Tuning
A heartwarming scene
of two girls interac2ng
with a golden retriever
in a parking lot. …
Prompt Video BoundingBoxes Subject Reference Images Trajectories
T5 Encoder VAE Encoder VAE Encoder VAE Encoder Embedder
padding
+ + + + +
Add Noise Control🔥 Group 1 2 3🔥 Object🔥 Object🔥 Object🔥 Control 🔥
+ ZeroConvLayers🔥 Group 1🔥 Group 2🔥 Group 3🔥 Group 1 2 3🔥
Input Tokens
Pos Embed 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
DreamVideo-Omni 🔥
1 Position Embedding
Pos Embed for Ref Img Reweighted
DiffusionLoss
Pos Embed for Pad Token
Stage 2: Latent Identity Reinforcement Learning
Latent ID Reward Model
Add
Noise 🔥
🔥 🔥
T R M r e a w o i d n a i e r n d l g Posi8ve/Nega8veVideo En V c A od E er 𝒛!,𝒕 D M i V ff i o u d d s e i e o o l n Spa F ti e o a t t e u m re p s oral At C te ro n s ti s o n Head Re 𝒓 w 𝒕 ard
𝓛𝐋𝐈𝐑𝐌
𝒛)*+ Query
Reference Image ID Feature Preference
Labels
Prompt & Timestep
🔥
DreamVideo- Latent ID Reward
… 𝓛
Omni Reward Model 𝒓 𝐋𝐈𝐑𝐞𝐅𝐋
𝒕!
𝒛 𝑻 𝒛 𝒕!"# 𝒛 𝒕! Faster training& lower memory Reward
Feedback
Reference Image VAE Reward
Decoder Model Learning
Fig. 2. Overview of DreamVideo-Omni. In Stage 1, the framework introduces an all-in-one video DiT that incorporates reference images, bboxes, and
trajectoriesformulti-subjectcustomizationandomni-motioncontrol.Stage2furtherenhancesidentityfidelityviatheproposedlatentidentityrewardfeedback
learningmechanism,whichutilizesalatentidentityrewardmodeltodirectlyevaluateintermediatelatents,completelybypassingtheexpensiveVAEdecoder
forfastertraining.
trajectory conditioning mechanism, reducing training sequences into the DiT, we first filter out clips exhibiting
overhead while improving interactivity. abrupt object fluctuations by detecting adjacent-frame bound2) Conditioning Signal Injection: Beyond the task formu- ing box IoU to ensure training stability. The valid sequences
lation, the effective injection of conditioning signals is pivotal are then rendered as RGB videos on a white background,
for achieving precise control. whereeachobjectisassignedauniquerandomcolorandpixel1) Subject appearance. To enable robust multi-subject cus- wise averaging is applied in overlapping regions to resolve
tomization while mitigating "copy-paste" artifacts, reference ambiguity. These rendered videos are projected into the latent
imagesareextractedfromframestemporallydisjointfromthe space via a 3D VAE. To enable efficient and effective control
currenttrainingclipandundergoextensivedataaugmentation, signalinjection,weimplementahierarchicalmotioninjection
detailed in Sec. III-A3. These processed images are then strategy: bounding box latents are added to both the noisy
encoded via a 3D VAE, and their latent representations are input latents and the output of each DiT block via learnable,
concatenatedtoformtheconditioninginputforthevideoDiT.
2) Global object motion. Before inputting bounding box
layer-specific zero-convolutions, formulated as: By integrating these specific indices into the 3D RoPE,
we enable the unified DiT architecture to effectively process
h =z +Z (z ), h =Block (h )+Z (z ), (1)
0 t in box l+1 l l l box heterogeneous inputs, including both reference images and
where z and z are the input noisy video latents and diverse motion control signals.
t box
boundingboxlatents,respectively.Z andZ denotethezero- Groupandroleembeddings. Tomitigatecontrolambiguity
in l
convolutions at the input stage and the l-th DiT block. h is in multi-subject generation and distinguish the functional
l
the input hidden state to the l-th block. This dense injection roles of heterogeneous inputs, we introduce two types of
mechanism enhances the precision of global motion control learnable embeddings: group embeddings and role embedwithout increasing the token sequence length. dings. First, we formulate the fundamental control unit as
3) Local object motion and camera movement. Since we atripletof⟨Reference Subject,Global Box,Local Trajectory⟩,
employpointtrajectoriestocontrolbothlocalobjectdynamics and assign a unique group embedding to each unit. Given
and camera movements, the sampled points must compre- that a reference image captures a single subject, its correhensively cover both foreground subjects and background sponding group embedding is added to all latent tokens of
regions. While uniform sampling is an intuitive solution, it the image. In contrast, for the bounding box and trajectory
often struggles with the fine-grained motion control due to latents, this same group embedding is injected exclusively
insufficientsamplingdensityonobjectboundaries.Toaddress into the spatial regions and track points corresponding to
this, we devise a hybrid sampling strategy that stochastically the subject. This explicit binding mechanism ensures that
alternates between two modes: (i) random grid sampling, each subject is correctly associated with its corresponding
whichensuresbroadcoverageofwholescenedynamics(back- bounding box and trajectories, effectively preventing control
ground and objects); and (ii) object-aware sampling, which confusion.Second,weintroduceroleembeddings,comprising
samples strictly within foreground masks to focus on intricate object and control embeddings, to differentiate input signals'
localdynamics.Toimproverobustnessontrajectorydensities, functionalities. Specifically, an object embedding is added
a subset of trajectories is randomly dropped during training. to all reference image tokens to designate them as visual
Following Motion Prompting [57], we construct trajectory appearance assets, whereas a control embedding is applied to
tokens by generating unique sinusoidal positional encodings allboundingboxandtrajectorytokenstomarkthemasmotion
and scattering them into blank feature maps according to controlguidance.Thisfunctionaldistinctionenablesthemodel
their discretized spatiotemporal coordinates. These tokens are to effectively process heterogeneous conditions.
subsequently concatenated with the noisy video and reference Dataaugmentationforsubjectcustomization. Tomitigate
image latents to condition the DiT training. "copy-paste" artifacts caused by directly training on reference
3) Specialized Architectural Components : Condition- subjects,weapplyarobustaugmentationpipelinetothereferaware 3D RoPE. To process heterogeneous inputs, includ- enceimages.Specifically,westochasticallyemploygeometric
ing video latents, multi-subject reference images, and motion transformations (e.g., flipping, rotation, affine shearing, and
control signals, within a unified DiT architecture, we con- cropping) and visual degradations (e.g., blur, color jitter) to
catenate all latent tokens along the temporal dimension and preventoverfitting.Theseperturbationseffectivelyenhancethe
design a condition-aware 3D Rotary Positional Embedding robustness of identity preservation.
(RoPE). While our condition-aware 3D RoPE maintains stan- Training loss. Following DreamVideo-2 [17], we use a
dard indexing for spatial dimensions to preserve geometric reweighted diffusion loss that differentiates the contributions
structure, it employs a specialized temporal indexing strategy ofregionsinsideandoutsidetheboundingboxes.Specifically,
to distinguish input types: we amplify the contributions within bounding boxes to en-
(i) Video frame tokens: We assign sequential temporal hance subject learning while preserving the original diffusion
indices t ∈ [0,T − 1] to these tokens to ensure temporal lossforregionsoutsidetheseboxes.Thetraininglossofstage
consistency. Note that bounding box latents are element-wise 1 is defined as:
a p d o d si e t d ion to al th em es b e e f d r d a i m ng e s s . , thereby naturally inheriting the same L sft =E z,ϵ,C,t (cid:104) (1+λ 1 M)· (cid:13) (cid:13)ϵ−ϵ θ (z t ,C,t) (cid:13) (cid:13) 2 2 (cid:105) , (2)
(ii) Reference image tokens: We assign a shared, distinct
where C = {c ,z ,z ,z } is the comprehensive contxt ref box traj
timeindext toallvalidreferenceimagetokens.Thisdesign
ref ditioning set. c is the text prompt, z is the latent codes
txt ref
explicitly decouples reference subjects from the video tokens,
of reference images I , and z is the constructed trajectory
ref traj
instructing the model to treat these tokens as static visual
featuremap.Mdenotesthebinaryboundingboxmasks(1for
conditions rather than sequential frames.
foreground, 0 otherwise), and λ >0 is the balancing factor.
(iii) Padding tokens: To handle varying numbers of referϵ∼N(0,I) and ϵ denotes the denoising DiT network.
θ
encesubjectsacrossvideos,wepadthereferenceimagetokens
toafixedcapacityN withinthebatch.Thesepaddedtokens
max
B. Latent Identity Reinforcement Learning
are assigned a distinct "invalid" time index t , allowing the
pad
model to identify and ignore these non-informative tokens. While the omni-motion and identity SFT stage establishes
(iv)Trajectorytokens:Toprovideprecisepixel-levelmotion unified controllability, relying solely on low-level reconstruccontrol, trajectory tokens inherit the same temporal indices tion losses is insufficient for preserving fine-grained appeart ∈ [0,T − 1] as the video frame tokens, ensuring strict ance details. To further enhance identity fidelity by aligning
spatiotemporal alignment with the corresponding video. with human preferences, we introduce the latent identity
reinforcement learning stage, which trains a latent identity 2) Latent Identity Reward Feedback Learning: Benefiting
rewardmodelforrewardfeedbacklearning,asshowninFig.2. from the architectural efficiency of our LIRM, we perform
1) Latent Identity Reward Model: To provide fine-grained, Reward Feedback Learning (ReFL) within the latent space to
identity-consistentfeedbackduringreinforcementlearning,we further enhance identity preservation by aligning with human
introduce the Latent Identity Reward Model (LIRM). Unlike preferences. Standard ReFL faces severe computational botconventional reward models (e.g., CLIP or VLMs) that evalu- tlenecks in video generation, as it necessitates expensive VAE
atevideosinRGBspace,ourLIRMoperatesdirectlyinlatent decoding for pixel-level evaluation. Furthermore, it typically
space, mitigating computational overhead and facilitating the restricts reward feedback to the final denoised result, thereby
subsequent reward feedback learning. neglecting structural information established in the early difArchitecture. Fig. 2 shows that LIRM comprises three key fusion stages. In contrast, by bypassing the VAE decoder,
modules: a video diffusion model (VDM) backbone, an iden- our Latent Identity Reward Feedback Learning (LIReFL)
titycross-attentionlayer,andarewardpredictionhead.Specif- significantly mitigates memory overhead. This design enables
ically, given a video pair V ∈ {V ,V } and a reference direct gradient backpropagation to the video generator and
pos neg
image I , we first project them into a shared latent space via denserewardfeedbackatarbitrarydiffusiontimesteps,thereby
ref
a3DVAEencoder,yieldinglatentrepresentationsz andz . fully leveraging the potential of ReFL.
V ref
Weperturbz withgaussiannoiseattimestepttoyieldz , Specifically, we initialize the latents from Gaussian noise
V V,t
while maintaining z ref in its clean state. We then leverage the and sample a target intermediate timestep t m ∼U(0,T −1).
pretrainedVDMbackboneΦtoextractspatiotemporalfeatures Wefirstperformstandardgradient-freedenoisingfromstepT
f V =Φ(z V,t ,t,c txt )fromthenoisyvideoandidentityfeatures downtot m+1 toconservememory.Uponreachingstept m+1 ,
f =Φ(z ,t ,c )fromthereferenceimage.Subsequently, we execute a single gradient-enabled denoising step to derive
ref ref 0 txt
the identity features serve as the query Q in a cross-attention the predicted latent z tm , which is formulated as:
layer to attend to the video's spatiotemporal features acting
z =µ (z ,t ,c ,z ), (6)
as key K and value V, measuring the alignment between the
tm θ tm+1 m+1 txt ref
subject's identity and the generated video content: where µ θ denotes the single-step solver function (e.g.,
UniPC[89]step)parameterizedbythevideogeneratorϵ .The
θ
(cid:18) QK⊤(cid:19)
resultingz isimmediatelyevaluatedbythefrozenLIRMto
h =Attention(Q,K,V)=Softmax √ V, (3) tm
attn d predict the identity reward r tm = LIRM(z tm ,t m ,c txt ,z ref ).
The reinforcement loss is then formulated to maximize this
whereQ=f ref W Q ,andK,V=f V W K ,f V W V .Finally,a expected identity fidelity:
residual connection fuses the aligned features with the query,
L =−E [r ]. (7)
andtheresultingrepresentationispassedthroughalightweight LIReFL tm,ctxt,zref tm
MLP head H to predict the scalar reward r :
t To prevent "reward hacking", where the model overoptimizes for identity scores at the expense of visual quality
r =H(h +Q). (4)
t attn ordiversity,weincorporatethesupervisedSFTobjectivefrom
the first stage as a regularizer. The final training objective is
Unlike prior works [83], [82] that rely on static image-based
a weighted combination:
encoders as reward models, our LIRM leverages the inherent
spatiotemporal priors of the VDM. This facilitates motion- L=L sft +λ 2 L LIReFL , (8)
aware identity assessment by evaluating identity consistency
where λ controls the strength of the reward feedback. This
integrated with motion dynamics, penalizing "copy-paste" ar- 2
balanced strategy ensures the model aligns with human identifacts while ensuring robust preservation under large motion.
tity preferences while preserving precise motion control and
Latentidentitypreferenceoptimization. Wecurateahighgenerative diversity established during the SFT stage.
qualitypreferencedatasetD ={(V,I ,c ,y) }N from
LIRM ref txt i i=1
our in-house data, comprising ∼27,500 training videos and
C. Dataset Construction Pipeline
500 testing videos. Each sample consists of video win-lose
pairs coupled with corresponding single- or multi-subject To facilitate the SFT stage of DreamVideo-Omni, which
reference images. Each video is assigned a human-annotated demands precise alignment across subject identity, global and
label y ∈ {0,1} to indicate whether the video V aligns local motion, and camera movement, we construct a largewith the identity defined by I . Leveraging this dataset, we scale, densely annotated, high-quality video dataset. Fig. 3
ref
optimizetheLIRMparametersviaabinarycross-entropyloss: illustrates our automated pipeline with four sequential stages:
1) Motion-based filtering. Robust motion control learning
L =−E (cid:2) ylogσ(r )+(1−y)log(1−σ(r )) (cid:3) , (5) necessitates training samples with significant temporal dyLIRM DLIRM t t
namics. We estimate dense optical flow using RAFT [90]
where σ(·) is the sigmoid activation. To mitigate computa- and compute the average motion magnitude across frames.
tional overhead, we utilize the first eight blocks of the VDM Videos with small motion magnitude are discarded, ensuring
as the backbone, following [88]. During training, the VDM the dataset focuses on meaningful motion patterns.
backbone,identitycross-attentionlayer,andrewardprediction 2) Subject discovery and captioning. To identify movhead are jointly updated. ing subjects and generate dense descriptions, we first utilize
Motion RAFT
Amplitude
Videos Optical Flow Filtered Videos
(1)FilterVideos by Motion Amplitude
["girl",
["girl", "dog", Is Moving
RAM++ Qwen3 Max "dog", Subjects "car", "tree"] Subjects? "car"]
A heartwarming scene of two girls interacting with a golden
retriever in a parking lot. …The girls are dressed casually; one
Qwen3-VL Caption wears …, and the other … . The parking lot is surrounded by
Videos cars … in the background.
(2)Tag Subjects and Get Caption
["girl", "dog", "car"] Bounding
Boxes SubjectTags
Subject
Masks
BoundingBoxes
Videos
(3)Extract Subject Bounding Boxes, Masks, and Trajectories
(4)Extract Subject ReferenceImages
Subject
Filtering
TABLEI
COMPARISONWITHDATASETSFORVIDEOCUSTOMIZATIONAND
CONTROLLABLEGENERATION.OURDATASETUNIQUELYSUPPORTS
MULTI-SUBJECTCUSTOMIZATIONWITHCOMPREHENSIVEMOTION
CONTROLANNOTATIONS.
No.of Reference Multi- All-FrameAll-FrameAll-Frame Videos Images Subject Mask Box Trajectory
WebVid-10M[97] ∼10M ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
UCF-101[98] 13,320 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
DAVIS[99] 50 ✗ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✗
GOT-10k[100] 9,695 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✗
VideoBooth[10] 48,724 ✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
DreamVideo-2[17] 230,160 ✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✗
Grounding VideoAlchemist[49]∼37.8M ✓ ✓ ✗ ✗ ✗
DINO Phantom[12] ∼1M ✓ ✓ ✗ ✗ ✗
Wan-Move[16] ∼1.98M ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓
OurDataset ∼2.12M ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
SAM2
GT Video
Camera
Trajectories
CoTracker3
Object
Trajectories
ComprehensiveAnnotations
Detailed Caption
Threeyoga practitionersperforming yogain an indooryoga studio. They are dressed in
Random casual sportswear, executing a series of yoga poses on blue and pink yoga mats. The video
Frame x Reference is filmed from a fixed perspective, capturing their fluid transitions from one pose to
(Outside Data Images another. The background features a minimalist interior with wooden floors and white walls.
Clip) Augment BoundingBoxes Trajectories Subject Masks
Videos Subject ation
Masks
Fig.3. Pipelineofdatasetconstruction.
ReferenceImages
RAM++ [91] to extract semantic tags from the video. These
tags are subsequently refined by Qwen3 Max [92] to retain
only significant moving subjects. Finally, we employ Qwen3VL [93] to generate detailed captions for each video.
3) Spatiotemporal annotation extraction. This stage extracts core structural conditions, including global bounding
boxes, subject masks, and motion trajectories. Guided by
Fig. 4. Visualization of a test sample from DreamOmni Bench. Our
the filtered tags, we first employ Grounding DINO [94] to
benchmark supports fine-grained evaluation through comprehensive annotadetectsubjectboundingboxes,whichserveasinputsforSAM tions,includingmultiplereferenceimagesforeachsubject,detailedcaptions,
2 [95] to yield precise binary segmentation masks of subjects. and precise spatial-temporal ground truths such as bounding boxes, motion
trajectories,andsubjectmasks.
Then,weutilizeCoTracker3[96]fordensepointtrackingand
classify the resulting trajectories based on the subject masks:
points falling within subject regions are labeled as object
lishes a solid foundation for both video customization and
trajectories, while those in the background are designated as
motion control tasks.
camera trajectories.
4) Reference image construction. To facilitate zero-shot
D. DreamOmni Bench
customization and mitigate trivial copy-paste solutions, we
samplereferenceimagesfromframestemporallydisjointfrom Existing benchmarks typically isolate video customization
the training clip. The subjects are then isolated via their from controllable generation, rendering them inadequate for
corresponding segmentation masks and applied to extensive evaluating the holistic capabilities of DreamVideo-Omni. On
data augmentation to yield final reference images. the one hand, current personalization benchmarks [11], [17],
Table I shows that distinct from previous video customiza- [10] are predominantly confined to single-subject scenarios,
tion and controllable generation datasets, our dataset uniquely lacking the capacity to assess multi-subject consistency and
supports multi-subject customization with comprehensive mo- quantify motion controllability. On the other hand, recent
tion annotations, including segmentation masks, bounding motion control benchmarks, such as Wan-Move [16], focus
boxes, and trajectories. This richly annotated corpus estab- exclusively on point trajectory precision. These protocols
are neither comprehensive nor capable of measuring identity Baselines. Due to the absence of open-source methods capreservation. Consequently, there is a critical absence of a pable of simultaneously supporting multi-subject customizaunifiedbenchmarkthatsimultaneouslyevaluatesmulti-subject tion and comprehensive motion control, we benchmark
customization and comprehensive motion control, including DreamVideo-Omni against prior methods from three distinct
bounding boxes and dense point trajectories. categories on both the DreamOmni Bench and MSRVTTTo bridge this gap, we construct the DreamOmni Bench, Personalization Bench [49]. On the DreamOmni Bench, we
composed of high-quality real-world videos sourced inde- compare with: (1) DreamVideo-2 [17], representing singlependently of our training dataset to ensure zero-shot evalu- subject customization with motion control; (2) VACE [103]
ation. We perform manual filtering to retain high-resolution and Phantom [12], focusing on single and multi-subject cusvideos that exhibit meaningful subject motion and camera tomization; and (3) Wan-Move [16], specializing in trajectory
movement, explicitly excluding static videos and frames with control.Additionally,ontheMSRVTT-PersonalizationBench,
text overlays or watermarks. After filtering, we leverage the we compare with the recent state-of-the-art methods Video
automated pipeline detailed in Sec. III-C to generate dense Alchemist [49] and Tora2 [20]. Since their codes are not
captions and comprehensive annotations (including subject publiclyavailable,wecitethequantitativeresultsdirectlyfrom
masks, bounding boxes, and trajectories) for each video. their original papers.
The resulting benchmark comprises a total of 1,027 videos, Evaluation metrics. We quantitatively evaluate our method
explicitly categorized into 436 single-subject and 591 multi- using 6 metrics across three comprehensive dimensions: 1)
subjectsamples,featuringdiversecategoriesspanninghumans, Overall Consistency. To assess the semantic alignment begeneral objects, animals, and faces. tween generated videos and text prompts, we employ the
Our DreamOmni Bench facilitates a unified evaluation CLIP-Text similarity (CLIP-T) using the CLIP ViT-B/32 [21].
of both identity preservation (covering both generic objects 2)SubjectandFaceFidelity.Whole-imagesimilaritymetrics
and human faces) and motion control precision (measuring areinadequateformulti-subjectcustomization,asbackground
bounding box and trajectory accuracy). Specific quantitative noise and other subjects interfere with accurate identity exmetrics are detailed in Sec. IV-A, while visual samples from traction. To address this, we adopt region-based metrics to
the benchmark are provided in Fig. 4. evaluate both subject and face identity preservation, specificallyRegionCLIP-Imagesimilarity(R-CLIP),RegionDINOImagesimilarity(R-DINO),andFaceSimilarity(Face-S).For
IV. EXPERIMENT
R-CLIP and R-DINO, we utilize GroundingDINO [94] to
A. Experimental Setup
detect and crop subject regions in generated frames based
Implementation details. We utilize Wan2.1-1.3B T2V as on their textual tags. We then compute the cosine similarity
our foundational model. Across all training stages, we em- betweenthecroppedregionsandreferenceimagesusingCLIP
ploy the AdamW optimizer [101] to process video clips at ViT-B/32 and DINO-ViT-S/16 [22], respectively. For Facea resolution of 480 × 832 with 49 frames. 1) In the first S, we employ the InsightFace library with ArcFace [104]
omni-motion and identity SFT stage, the model is fine-tuned for identity verification. To handle multi-person scenarios,
for 40,000 iterations on 64 NVIDIA A100 GPUs with total we detect all faces in the generated frames and extract their
batch size 64, using a learning rate of 5×10−5 and weight embeddings; subsequently, we compute the cosine similarity
decay of 1×10−3. To enhance robustness, we randomly drop between each detected face and the reference face, matching
bounding box and trajectory conditions with a probability of the generated face with the highest similarity to the ground
p = 0.5, and apply data augmentation to reference images truthforevaluation.3)MotionControlPrecision.Weemploy
with the same probability (p=0.5). The reweighted diffusion Mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) and End Point Error
loss weight λ is set to 2. 2) The second latent identity (EPE)tomeasuretheaccuracyofspatiallayoutandtrajectory
reinforcement learning stage comprises two sub-steps: Latent control. For mIoU, we detect subjects in the generated videos
Identity Reward Model (LIRM) training and Latent Identity using GroundingDINO and calculate the overlap between the
Reward Feedback Learning (LIReFL). Both are conducted on detected bounding boxes and the ground-truth control boxes.
16 A100 GPUs with a batch size of 16 and a weight decay of For fine-grained trajectory evaluation (EPE), we initialize
1×10−2.ForLIRMtraining,weinitializethebackboneusing query points using the ground-truth coordinates from the first
the first 8 layers of Wan2.1-1.3B and train for ∼4,000 steps. frame. These points are tracked in the generated video using
We use differential learning rates: 1×10−5 for the prediction CoTracker3 [96], and EPE is computed as the average Euheadandattentionlayer,and1×10−6 fortheVDMbackbone. clideandistancebetweentrackedandground-truthtrajectories.
Duringtraining,wefreezethetextandpatchembeddinglayers
of the pretrained VDM. For LIReFL, we fine-tune the DiT
B. Main Results
from the SFT stage for 3,400 steps while keeping the reward
modelfrozen.WeincorporateanSFTlossasaregularizerwith Subjectcustomizationwithomni-motioncontrol. Toevala weight of λ = 0.1, and set the learning rate to 5×10−6. uate the capability of our framework in joint subject cusThe condition dropping and reference augmentation strategies tomization and motion control, we benchmark DreamVideofollow the same protocol as the SFT stage. During inference, Omni against DreamVideo-2 [17], a representative baseline
we employ the UniPC scheduler [89] with 50 steps and a in this domain. It is worth noting that while recent works like
classifier-free guidance scale [102] of 5.0. Tora2[20]explorethistask,theircoderemainsclosed-source,
A cute little dog happily runningon A person wearing a black top
a sunlit grassy field. Its ears stand manipulating a transparent crystal
up and its tongue out, looking very ballwith both hands by the seaside.
excited and lively. … ...
DreamVideo-2 DreamVideo-2
Ours Ours
Fig.5. Qualitativecomparisonofjointsubjectcustomizationandmotioncontrol.Previousmethodsstruggletobalanceidentitypreservationwithaccurate
motioncontrol.Incontrast,ourmethoddelivershigh-fidelitysubjectcustomizationthatstrictlyfollowscomplexspatialtrajectories.
TABLEII
QUANTITATIVECOMPARISONONDREAMOMNIBENCH.
Method R-CLIP↑ R-DINO↑ Face-S↑ mIoU↑ EPE↓ CLIP-T↑
DreamVideo-2[17] 0.731 0.429 0.157 0.212 24.05 0.297
DreamVideo-Omni(Ours) 0.739 0.499 0.301 0.558 9.31 0.308
TABLEIII
QUANTITATIVECOMPARISONONMSRVTT-PERSONALIZATIONBENCH.WEFOLLOWTHEEXPERIMENTALSETTINGSANDEVALUATIONPROTOCOLS
OFTORA2[20]ANDVIDEOALCHEMIST[49],REPORTINGRESULTSFROMTHEIRORIGINALPAPERS.
SubjectMode FaceMode
Method
CLIP-T↑ R-DINO↑ EPE↓ CLIP-T↑ Face-S↑ EPE↓
Tora+Flux.1[79] 0.254 0.587 19.72 0.265 0.363 17.41
VideoAlchemist[49] 0.268 0.626 - 0.272 0.411 -
Tora2[20] 0.273 0.615 17.43 0.274 0.419 13.52
DreamVideo-Omni(Ours) 0.273 0.628 11.21 0.273 0.417 8.50
precluding direct comparison. Furthermore, DreamVideo-2 is from identity degradation under large motion. Conversely, for
inherently limited to single-subject customization with coarse complex trajectories shown on the right, DreamVideo-2 often
bounding box control. In contrast, our DreamVideo-Omni exhibits trajectory drift or static motion, failing to achieve
supports a more versatile setting, enabling multi-subject cus- precisemotioncontrol,whileourmethodpreciselyalignswith
tomization with omni-motion control (combining boxes and the bounding boxes and trajectories. These results reveal that
trajectories). For a fair comparison, we restrict our evaluation DreamVideo-2 struggles to balance identity preservation and
to single-subject scenarios compatible with the baselines. motioncontrol.Incontrast,ourframeworkeffectivelyresolves
Tables II and III present the quantitative results on this conflict, simultaneously achieving precise motion control
DreamOmniBenchandMSRVTT-PersonalizationBench[49], and high-fidelity subject customization.
respectively. As observed, DreamVideo-Omni significantly Subject customization. We evaluate the pure subject
outperforms DreamVideo-2 across all metrics on DreamOmni customization capability of DreamVideo-Omni on the
Bench, demonstrating our superior subject customization and DreamOmniBench,comparingitagainststate-of-the-artmethprecise motion control capabilities. Results on MSRVTT- ods including VACE [103] and Phantom [12] across both
Personalization further validate our robustness: in Subject single-subject and multi-subject scenarios.
Mode, we achieve the highest R-DINO and best EPE scores. Table IV shows that our method achieves state-of-theForFaceMode,whileourFace-SscoreiscomparabletoTora2 art performance on single-subject customization. Specifically,
duetothelimitedvideoqualityandresolutionoftheMSRVTT DreamVideo-Omni yields the highest R-DINO and R-CLIP
dataset,westillachievesignificantlybetterEPE.Theseconsis- scores, indicating superior identity preservation. In the more
tent improvements across diverse benchmarks underscore the challenging multi-subject setting, our method consistently
generalizationofDreamVideo-Omniindeliveringhigh-fidelity surpasses baselines in R-DINO, Face-S, and CLIP-T scores.
subject customization and precise motion control. Thisdemonstratesthatourdesigneffectivelypreventsidentity
Fig. 5 demonstrates the robustness of DreamVideo-Omni mixing and leakage while achieving superior text alignment.
across diverse scenarios. Fig. 5 (left) shows that while our Fig. 6 (left) illustrates the results in a single-subject scemethod maintains high identity fidelity, DreamVideo-2 suffers nario where the subject reveals her face from behind a leaf.
A manand a womaninteracting in a modern kitchen.
A womanin front of a yellow background, wearing a white turtleneck
The woman, …, is focused on chopping vegetables,
sweater and a pink rabbit ears headband. Her expression changes from
while the man, …, is busy around the kitchen. … The
surprise to confusion, and finally back to surprise. Throughout the video,
kitchen is …, featuring white cabinets and decorative
the camera angle remains unchanged, focusing on the woman's face …
tiles on the walls. …
VACE VACE
Phantom Phantom
Ours Ours
Fig. 6. Qualitative comparison of subject customization. DreamVideo-Omni generates videos with accurate subject appearance and enhanced motion
dynamics,aligningwithprovidedprompts.
TABLEIV TABLEV
QUANTITATIVECOMPARISONOFSUBJECTCUSTOMIZATIONON QUANTITATIVECOMPARISONOFMOTIONCONTROLCAPABILITYON
DREAMOMNIBENCH.WEREPORTRESULTSSEPARATELYFOR DREAMOMNIBENCH.WEREPORTRESULTSSEPARATELYFOR
SINGLE-SUBJECTANDMULTI-SUBJECTSCENARIOS.ALLMODELSHAVE SINGLE-SUBJECTANDMULTI-SUBJECTSCENARIOS.
1.3BPARAMETERS.
Method mIoU↑ EPE↓ CLIP-T↑
Method R-CLIP↑ R-DINO↑ Face-S↑ CLIP-T↑
Single-SubjectMode
S0ing l7e-S u3bj1ectMode
Tora[79](T2V,1.1B) 0.163 31.74 0.307
VACE[103] 0.732 0.480 0.174 0.293 Wan-Move[16](I2V,14B) 0.507 14.43 0.305
Phantom[12] 0.738 0.485 0.299 0.296 DreamVideo-Omni(T2V,1.3B) 0.558 9.31 0.308
DreamVideo-Omni 0.739 0.499 0.301 0.308
Multi-SubjectMode
Multi-SubjectMode
Tora[79](T2V,1.1B) 0.162 32.84 0.306
VACE[103] 0.719 0.497 0.275 0.293 Wan-Move[16](I2V,14B) 0.541 9.02 0.303
Phantom[12] 0.722 0.517 0.305 0.293 DreamVideo-Omni(T2V,1.3B) 0.570 6.08 0.306
DreamVideo-Omni 0.720 0.524 0.329 0.306
a 1.3B parameter model, DreamVideo-Omni surpasses the
VACE exhibits suboptimal facial preservation and unnatural 14B parameter Wan-Move across all metrics in both settings,
motion, while Phantom generates unexpected multiple faces. demonstratingthesignificantparameterefficiencyandsuperior
In contrast, our method generates a natural transition with controllability of our method.
the face faithfully preserved. In the multi-subject scenario Fig. 7 further highlights these differences. Tora struggles
involvingacomplexinteractionbetweenamanandawoman, with trajectory adherence, failing to maintain effective control
both baselines fail to preserve identity fidelity, exhibiting in multi-subject settings. While Wan-Move generates highdiscrepanciesinskintone,hairstyle,facialdetails,andclothing qualityvisualcontent,ittendstodeviatefromcomplextrajeccolor compared to the reference. Conversely, DreamVideo- tories, as evidenced by the inaccurate path of the soccer ball
Omni successfully disentangles the two identities, rendering andtheloosealignmentbetweenthepuppyandthegirl'shand
distinct, correct appearances with coherent interactions. This movements. In contrast, DreamVideo-Omni precisely follows
validates the effectiveness of our approach in maintaining complex motion trajectories. In the single-subject case, the
high-fidelity identity, even in challenging scenarios. man's interaction with the soccer ball strictly adheres to the
Motion control. To validate the effectiveness of our motion intricate looping trajectory. In the multi-subject scenario, our
control capabilities, we compare DreamVideo-Omni against model accurately coordinates the distinct movements of the
state-of-the-art models, including the Tora [79] (T2V, 1.1B) girl and the puppy, verifying our robust control capabilities.
and the large-scale Wan-Move [16] (I2V, 14B). User study. To further evaluate the perceptual quality of
Table V shows that DreamVideo-Omni consistently outper- generated videos, we conduct a comprehensive user study
forms baselines across both single-subject and multi-subject focusingonthreedistinctcapabilities:jointsubjectcustomizascenarios. Compared to Tora, our method achieves a substan- tionwithmotioncontrol,puresubjectcustomization,andpure
tialimprovementinmotionprecision,withmIoUincreasingby motion control. We invite 18 evaluators to rate 270 groups of
0.395andEPEreducingbynearly70%.Notably,despitebeing videos generated by different methods. Each evaluation group
A man wearing a white T-shirt interacting with a soccer ball in front A heartwarming scene of a little girl interacting with a puppy in
of an orange background. At the beginning of the video, the man the park. The little girl, wearing an orange jacket and black pants,
has his eyes closed, seemingly in deep thought or feeling. Then, he is sitting on the grass, holding some food in her hands. The puppy
opens his eyes, smiling, and starts to play with the soccer ball. He looks very excited; it stands up and stretches out its front paws,
gently tosses the ball up and catches it, and … seemingly waiting for the food from the little girl. …
Tora Tora
Wan-Move Wan-Move
Ours Ours
Fig.7. Qualitativecomparisonofmotioncontrol.OurDreamVideo-Omniachievesprecisemotiontrajectorycontrol.
TABLEVI TABLEVII
HUMANEVALUATION.WEREPORTTHEPERCENTAGEOFUSERVOTES QUANTITATIVEABLATIONSTUDIESONEACHCOMPONENTIN
FOREACHMETHODACROSSDIFFERENTSETTINGS. DREAMVIDEO-OMNI.WEREPORTRESULTSSEPARATELYFOR
SINGLE-SUBJECTANDMULTI-SUBJECTSCENARIOSTOANALYZETHE
Subject Motion Text Overall IMPACTOFEACHMODULE.
Setting Method
Fidelity Consistency Alignment Quality
15 22 48
JointID& DreamVideo-28[17 ]2122 .44%0 18.3% 21.5% 10.8% Method R-CLIP↑R-DINO↑Face-S↑mIoU↑EPE↓CLIP-T↑
Motion Ours 77.6% 81.7% 78.5% 89.2%
Single-SubjectMode
VACE[103] 16.3% - 15.6% 19.5%
PureSubject w/oCond-Aware3DRoPE 0.625 0.139 0.039 0.274 30.22 0.216
Phantom[12] 19.5% - 16.8% 20.2%
Customization w/oGroup&RoleEmb. 0.738 0.486 0.254 0.524 26.24 0.309
Ours 64.2% - 67.6% 60.3%
w/oHierarchicalBBoxInjection 0.733 0.508 0.257 0.400 31.84 0.307
Tora[79] - 9.5% 16.5% 13.4% Ours(Stage1) 0.733 0.483 0.251 0.556 10.53 0.306
PureMotion
Wan-Move[16] - 20.2% 20.4% 26.4%
Control Ours - 70.3% 63.1% 60.2% w/oLIReFL(Stage2SFTonly) 0.735 0.487 0.266 0.561 10.01 0.307
Ours(Full) 0.739 0.499 0.301 0.558 9.31 0.308
Multi-SubjectMode
w/oCond-Aware3DRoPE 0.647 0.157 0.047 0.278 20.71 0.224
consists of reference subject images, a target textual prompt, w/oGroup&RoleEmb. 0.708 0.503 0.289 0.459 20.69 0.308
w/oHierarchicalBBoxInjection 0.714 0.510 0.269 0.289 25.56 0.305
corresponding motion conditions (i.e., bounding boxes or
Ours(Stage1) 0.713 0.506 0.287 0.532 6.80 0.305
trajectories), and the videos generated by competing methods. w/oLIReFL(Stage2SFTonly) 0.715 0.512 0.316 0.556 6.29 0.306
Evaluators are asked to select the best video based on four Ours(Full) 0.720 0.524 0.329 0.570 6.08 0.306
criteria:SubjectFidelity,MotionConsistency,TextAlignment,
andOverallQuality.TableVIshowsthatourmethodachieves
D. Ablation Studies
the highest user preference across diverse settings.
Effects of each component in DreamVideo-Omni. To
investigate the contribution of individual components, we
C. Emergent Capabilities
conductanablationstudyunderbothsingle-subjectandmultiBenefiting from the robust multi-subject customization and subject settings on the DreamOmni Bench.
omni-motion control capabilities of DreamVideo-Omni, our Table VII reveals the critical role of each component. (i)
multi-task training paradigm facilitates the emergence of Removing the condition-aware 3D RoPE leads to a catasnovelgenerativeabilities:Image-to-Video(I2V)generation trophic performance drop across all metrics in both scenarios,
and first-frame-conditioned trajectory control, despite our confirming its fundamental role in handling multi-condition
baseDiTbeingatext-to-video(T2V)model,asillustratedin heterogeneous inputs within the unified DiT framework. (ii)
Fig. 8. In fact, I2V generation can be considered as a special- Ablating the group and role embeddings degrades motion
izedformofcustomization,wheretheentirefirstframeserves control precision, resulting in inferior mIoU and EPE metrics,
as the comprehensive reference identity. Furthermore, our particularly in multi-subject modes. (iii) Omitting hierarchical
versatile omni-motion mechanism seamlessly extends to this BBox injection, where bounding box latents are added solely
setting, enabling precise spatial trajectory guidance directly to the input noisy latents, leads to a significant collapse
conditioned on the provided initial frame. These emergent in motion performance, with mIoU dropping to 0.289 in
properties demonstrate the strong generalization and unified multi-subject mode. This underscores that simple input-level
control capacity of our framework without requiring task- fusion is insufficient and hierarchical injection is critical for
specific fine-tuning. effectivemotioncontrol.(iv)Regardingthetrainingparadigm,
Close-up of two people exchanging flowers in front of a white background. They
were wearing white clothes, the person on the left had dark skin and the person on
the right had yellow skin. They held the red flowers in their hands and then
exchanged the flowers in their hands.
Panoramic view of a cartoon character climbing the stairs. In the flat shot, he was
wearing a white shirt and green pants, a pair of red shoes and a brown backpack. His
hair is brown and he wears glasses. The background is a simple white wall with a
green door frame on it.
Fig.8. EmergentgenerativecapabilitiesofDreamVideo-Omni.Despitebeingbuiltonatext-to-video(T2V)basemodel,ourframeworknaturallyenables
zero-shotImage-to-Video(I2V)generationandfirst-frame-conditionedtrajectorycontrolwithouttask-specificfine-tuning.
A group of divers exploring a coral reef in clear TABLEVIII
seawater. Wearing professional diving gear, the diver ABLATIONSTUDIESONTHELATENTIDENTITYREWARDMODEL.THE
move slowly over the reef, observing the marine life
around them. Fishswim among the corals, adding lively COLUMNSDENOTEFIVEINTERVALSOFNORMALIZEDDIFFUSION
movement to the scene. The video is shot from a fixed TIMESTEPSt∈[0,1].THEFIRSTROWREPRESENTSOURDEFAULT
a
b
n
e
g
tw
le
e
,
e
a
n
ll o
th
w
e
in
d
g
i v
v
e
ie
rs
w
a
e
n
rs
d
t
t
o
h e
c l
fi
e
s
a
h
rl y
in
s
t
e
h
e
e
t
ir
h e
n a
in
tu
te
ra
ra
l
cDon SETTING(BCELOSS,REF.IMAGEASQ,FROZENTEXT&PATCH
environment. EMBED.),WHILESUBSEQUENTROWSILLUSTRATETHEIMPACTOF
ALTERINGSPECIFICCOMPONENTS.
w/o Cond-Aware
3D RoPE Method [0,0.2] (0.2,0.4] (0.4,0.6] (0.6,0.8] (0.8,1.0] Avg
Ours(Default) 0.702 0.722 0.709 0.724 0.743 0.720
OptimizationObjective
w/o Group & w/BTLoss[105] 0.491 0.657 0.681 0.706 0.743 0.656
Role Embed ImageInjectionStrategy
w/Ref.ImageasKV 0.451 0.555 0.415 0.445 0.408 0.455
ParameterTuningScope
w/o Hierarchical Tuningtext&patchembed. 0.680 0.718 0.709 0.716 0.752 0.715
BBox Injection
TABLEIX
ABLATIONSTUDYONTHERANGEOFTIMESTEPtmINLIREFL.
w/o LIReFL
Rangeoftm R-CLIP↑ R-DINO↑ Face-S↑ mIoU↑ EPE↓ CLIP-T↑
Single-SubjectMode
Last3timesteps 0.737 0.494 0.293 0.543 9.98 0.307
Ours
Alltimesteps(Ours) 0.739 0.499 0.301 0.558 9.31 0.308
Multi-SubjectMode
Last3timesteps 0.717 0.518 0.324 0.573 6.30 0.307
Alltimesteps(Ours) 0.720 0.524 0.329 0.570 6.08 0.306
Fig.9. AblationstudyofeachcomponentinDreamVideo-Omni.
The absence of group and role embeddings leads to control
although Stage 1 establishes a solid baseline, subsequent fine- ambiguity, where the model struggles to disentangle multiple
tuningviastandardSFT(w/oLIReFL)offerslimitedgains.In subjects or bind specific motions to the correct identities. (iii)
contrast, our full model equipped with LIReFL achieves the Removing hierarchical BBox injection causes subjects to fail
best performance across most metrics, particularly in multi- in adhering to bounding boxes or trajectories, demonstrating
subject scenarios, effectively boosting subject customization that hierarchical motion injection is essential for achieving
while maintaining precise motion control. effective motion control. (iv) Compared to the standard SFT
Fig. 9 further corroborates these findings. (i) Without (w/o LIReFL), the integration of LIReFL effectively refines
condition-aware3DRoPE,thegenerationsuffersfromtraining identity details, delivering the harmonious balance between
collapse,resultinginsevereartifactsormeaninglessnoise.(ii) subject fidelity and motion control.
TABLEX tioncoherence.Thissuggeststhatexcessivelystrongfeedback
ABLATIONSTUDYONLOSSWEIGHTλ2OFLIREFL. disruptsthegenerativeprocess,aphenomenonalsoobservedin
previousreinforcementlearningstudies[106],[88].Balancing
λ R-CLIP↑ R-DINO↑ Face-S↑ mIoU↑ EPE↓ CLIP-T↑
2 robust identity preservation with motion control, we adopt
Single-Subject Mode λ =0.10 as the optimal configuration for our final model.
0.01 0.737 0.505 0.279 0.560 9.85 0.307
0.10 (Ours) 0.739 0.499 0.301 0.558 9.31 0.308
V. CONCLUSION
0.25 0.735 0.492 0.272 0.555 9.65 0.307
0.50 0.718 0.482 0.223 0.541 9.75 0.306 In this work, we present DreamVideo-Omni, a unified
1.00 0.674 0.350 0.120 0.350 25.00 0.280
framework that achieves harmonious multi-subject customizaMulti-Subject Mode tionwithomni-motioncontrol,encompassingglobalandlocal
0.01 0.718 0.518 0.322 0.557 6.70 0.306 object motion as well as camera movement. By introducing
0.10 (Ours) 0.720 0.524 0.329 0.570 6.08 0.306 a progressive two-stage training paradigm, we effectively
0.25 0.714 0.515 0.331 0.538 5.95 0.306
resolvetheconflictbetweenidentitypreservationandcomplex
0.50 0.710 0.504 0.295 0.530 6.73 0.305
motion control. Specifically, to ensure robust and precise
1.00 0.692 0.380 0.287 0.380 15.06 0.280
controllability, we incorporate a condition-aware 3D RoPE to
coordinate heterogeneous inputs and a hierarchical motion injectionstrategytoenhanceglobalmotionguidance.Tofurther
Design choices for latent identity reward model. We ineliminatecontrolambiguityinmulti-subjectscenarios,weprovestigatetheimpactofdifferentdesignchoicesonthepairwise
posegroupandroleembeddingstoexplicitlybindmotionsigclassification accuracy of the latent identity reward model in
nalstotheircorrespondingidentities.Furthermore,wedesigna
Table VIII. The accuracy is measured on the test set of winlatentidentityrewardfeedbacklearningparadigm,leveraginga
lose pairs, where a prediction is correct if the reward score of
VDM-based latent identity reward model to prioritize motionthewinnervideoishigherthanthatoftheloser.(i)Regarding
aware identity preservation aligned with human preferences.
the optimization objective, our default Binary Cross-Entropy
To advance the field, we design a comprehensive automated
(BCE)lossyieldssuperiorperformance(Avg0.720)compared
data construction pipeline and establish the DreamOmni
to the Bradley-Terry (BT) model [105] (Avg 0.656). Notably,
Bench, a holistic benchmark for evaluating multi-subject and
the BT loss exhibits significant instability at early timesteps
omni-motion control. Extensive experiments demonstrate that
(t∈[0,0.2]). (ii) For the image injection strategy, employing
DreamVideo-Omni significantly outperforms state-of-the-art
the reference image as the Query is critical. Treating it as
methods in generating high-quality, customizable videos with
Key/Value (KV) results in a catastrophic accuracy drop (to
precise and flexible motion control.
0.455),indicatingthatthereferenceimagemustactivelyattend
tothenoisylatentstoeffectivelydiscernidentityfeatures.(iii)
Regarding the parameter tuning scope, freezing the text and REFERENCES
patch embeddings outperforms fine-tuning them, suggesting [1] J.Ho,T.Salimans,A.Gritsenko,W.Chan,M.Norouzi,andD.J.Fleet,
that preserving pre-trained priors prevents overfitting and is "Videodiffusionmodels,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2204.03458,2022.
[2] Y. He, T. Yang, Y. Zhang, Y. Shan, and Q. Chen, "Latent video difsufficient for effective reward modeling.
fusionmodelsforhigh-fidelitylongvideogeneration,"arXivpreprint
Effect of the range of timestep t m in LIReFL. Table IX arXiv:2211.13221,2022.
investigates the influence of the range of timestep t on [3] J. Wang, H. Yuan, D. Chen, Y. Zhang, X. Wang, and S. Zhang,
m
"Modelscope text-to-video technical report," arXiv preprint
model performance. We compare sparse feedback on the last
arXiv:2308.06571,2023.
3 steps against dense feedback across all timesteps. In single- [4] H.Chen,M.Xia,Y.He,Y.Zhang,X.Cun,S.Yang,J.Xing,Y.Liu,
subject mode, this full-range strategy yields comprehensive Q. Chen, X. Wang et al., "Videocrafter1: Open diffusion models for
high-qualityvideogeneration,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2310.19512,2023.
improvements across all metrics. In multi-subject scenarios,
[5] Y. Wang, X. Chen, X. Ma, S. Zhou, Z. Huang, Y. Wang, C. Yang,
it further enhances identity metrics while maintaining precise Y.He,J.Yu,P.Yangetal.,"Lavie:High-qualityvideogenerationwith
motion control. These findings indicate that providing reward cascaded latent diffusion models," arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.15103,
2023.
feedbackatarbitrarytimestepsisessentialtofullyleveragethe
[6] W.Hong,M.Ding,W.Zheng,X.Liu,andJ.Tang,"Cogvideo:LargepotentialofLIReFL,enhancingidentityfidelitythroughoutthe scale pretraining for text-to-video generation via transformers," arXiv
generation process. preprintarXiv:2205.15868,2022.
[7] Z. Yang, J. Teng, W. Zheng, M. Ding, S. Huang, J. Xu,
Effect of loss weight λ in LIReFL. Table X illustrates
2 Y. Yang, W. Hong, X. Zhang, G. Feng et al., "Cogvideox: Text-tothe impact of varying the feedback learning strength λ 2 . We video diffusion models with an expert transformer," arXiv preprint
observethatvalueswithintherangeof[0.01,0.25]yieldrobust arXiv:2408.06072,2024.
[8] T.Wan,A.Wang,B.Ai,B.Wen,C.Mao,C.-W.Xie,D.Chen,F.Yu,
overall performance. Notably, identity fidelity metrics, such
H. Zhao, J. Yang et al., "Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video
as R-DINO and Face-S, consistently surpass those of the generativemodels,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2503.20314,2025.
SFT-only model (see Table VII), indicating that identity re- [9] Y. Wei, S. Zhang, H. Yuan, Y. Han, Z. Chen, J. Wang, D. Zou,
X. Liu, Y. Zhang, Y. Liu et al., "Routing matters in moe: Scaling
ward feedback effectively enhances customization and refines
diffusion transformers with explicit routing guidance," arXiv preprint
appearance details. However, performance begins to decline arXiv:2510.24711,2025.
when λ increases to 0.50. Furthermore, at λ = 1.00, the [10] Y.Jiang,T.Wu,S.Yang,C.Si,D.Lin,Y.Qiao,C.C.Loy,andZ.Liu,
2 2
"Videobooth: Diffusion-based video generation with image prompts,"
modelsuffersfromrewardhacking,whereitfindsshortcutsto
inProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConferenceonComputerVisionand
maximizetherewardattheexpenseofvisualrealismandmo- PatternRecognition,2024,pp.6689-6700.
[11] Y. Wei, S. Zhang, Z. Qing, H. Yuan, Z. Liu, Y. Liu, Y. Zhang, [31] N.Kumari,B.Zhang,R.Zhang,E.Shechtman,andJ.-Y.Zhu,"MultiJ. Zhou, and H. Shan, "Dreamvideo: Composing your dream videos conceptcustomizationoftext-to-imagediffusion,"inProceedingsofthe
withcustomizedsubjectandmotion,"inProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVF IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024, pp. 2023,pp.1931-1941.
6537-6549. [32] Y.Zhou,D.Zhou,M.-M.Cheng,J.Feng,andQ.Hou,"Storydiffusion:
[12] L. Liu, T. Ma, B. Li, Z. Chen, J. Liu, G. Li, S. Zhou, Q. He, and Consistent self-attention for long-range image and video generation,"
X.Wu,"Phantom:Subject-consistentvideogenerationviacross-modal arXivpreprintarXiv:2405.01434,2024.
alignment,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2502.11079,2025. [33] Z. Li, M. Cao, X. Wang, Z. Qi, M.-M. Cheng, and Y. Shan, "Pho-
[13] Z. Wang, Z. Yuan, X. Wang, Y. Li, T. Chen, M. Xia, P. Luo, and tomaker: Customizing realistic human photos via stacked id embedY.Shan,"Motionctrl:Aunifiedandflexiblemotioncontrollerforvideo ding,"inProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConferenceonComputerVision
generation," in ACM SIGGRAPH 2024 Conference Papers, 2024, pp. andPatternRecognition,2024,pp.8640-8650.
1-11. [34] M. Huang, Z. Mao, M. Liu, Q. He, and Y. Zhang, "Realcustom:
[14] J.Wang,Y.Zhang,J.Zou,Y.Zeng,G.Wei,L.Yuan,andH.Li,"Box- narrowingrealtextwordforreal-timeopen-domaintext-to-imagecusimator:Generatingrichandcontrollablemotionsforvideosynthesis," tomization,"inProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConferenceonComputer
arXivpreprintarXiv:2402.01566,2024. VisionandPatternRecognition,2024,pp.7476-7485.
[15] J. Xing, L. Mai, C. Ham, J. Huang, A. Mahapatra, C.-W. Fu, T.-
[35] E.Molad,E.Horwitz,D.Valevski,A.R.Acha,Y.Matias,Y.Pritch,
T. Wong, and F. Liu, "Motioncanvas: Cinematic shot design with
Y. Leviathan, and Y. Hoshen, "Dreamix: Video diffusion models are
controllableimage-to-videogeneration,"inProceedingsoftheSpecial
generalvideoeditors,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2302.01329,2023.
Interest Group on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques
[36] H.Chefer,S.Zada,R.Paiss,A.Ephrat,O.Tov,M.Rubinstein,L.Wolf,
ConferenceConferencePapers,2025,pp.1-11.
T. Dekel, T. Michaeli, and I. Mosseri, "Still-moving: Customized
[16] R. Chu, Y. He, Z. Chen, S. Zhang, X. Xu, B. Xia, D. Wang, H. Yi,
video generation without customized video data," arXiv preprint
X.Liu,H.Zhaoetal.,"Wan-move:Motion-controllablevideogenerarXiv:2407.08674,2024.
ationvialatenttrajectoryguidance,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2512.08765,
[37] Z. Ma, D. Zhou, C.-H. Yeh, X.-S. Wang, X. Li, H. Yang, Z. Dong,
2025.
K.Keutzer,andJ.Feng,"Magic-me:Identity-specificvideocustomized
[17] Y. Wei, S. Zhang, H. Yuan, X. Wang, H. Qiu, R. Zhao, Y. Feng,
diffusion,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2402.09368,2024.
F. Liu, Z. Huang, J. Ye et al., "Dreamvideo-2: Zero-shot subjectdrivenvideocustomizationwithprecisemotioncontrol,"arXivpreprint [38] X. He, Q. Liu, S. Qian, X. Wang, T. Hu, K. Cao, K. Yan, M. Zhou,
arXiv:2410.13830,2024. andJ.Zhang,"Id-animator:Zero-shotidentity-preservinghumanvideo
[18] X.Ju,W.Ye,Q.Liu,Q.Wang,X.Wang,P.Wan,D.Zhang,K.Gai, generation,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2404.15275,2024.
andQ.Xu,"Fulldit:Multi-taskvideogenerativefoundationmodelwith [39] Y.Zhou,R.Zhang,J.Gu,N.Zhao,J.Shi,andT.Sun,"Sugar:Subjectfullattention,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2503.19907,2025. driven video customization in a zero-shot manner," arXiv preprint
[19] Y. Cai, H. Zhang, X. Chen, J. Xing, Y. Hu, Y. Zhou, K. Zhang, arXiv:2412.10533,2024.
Z.Zhang,S.Y.Kim,T.Wangetal.,"Omnivcus:Feedforwardsubject- [40] T. Wu, Y. Zhang, X. Cun, Z. Qi, J. Pu, H. Dou, G. Zheng, Y. Shan,
drivenvideocustomizationwithmultimodalcontrolconditions,"arXiv and X. Li, "Videomaker: Zero-shot customized video generation
preprintarXiv:2506.23361,2025. with the inherent force of video diffusion models," arXiv preprint
[20] Z. Zhang, J. Liao, X. Meng, L. Qin, and W. Wang, "Tora2: Motion arXiv:2412.19645,2024.
andappearancecustomizeddiffusiontransformerformulti-entityvideo [41] Y.Huang,W.Xiong,H.Zhang,C.Chen,J.Liu,M.Yan,andS.Chen,
generation,"inProceedingsofthe33rdACMInternationalConference "Dive: Taming dino for subject-driven video editing," arXiv preprint
onMultimedia,2025,pp.9434-9443. arXiv:2412.03347,2024.
[21] A.Radford,J.W.Kim,C.Hallacy,A.Ramesh,G.Goh,S.Agarwal, [42] D.She,M.Liu,J.Pang,J.Wang,Z.Yang,W.He,G.Zhang,Y.Wang,
G.Sastry,A.Askell,P.Mishkin,J.Clarketal.,"Learningtransferable Q. Huang, H. Tang et al., "Customvideox: 3d reference attention
visual models from natural language supervision," in International driven dynamic adaptation for zero-shot customized video diffusion
conferenceonmachinelearning,2021,pp.8748-8763. transformers,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2502.06527,2025.
[22] M.Caron,H.Touvron,I.Misra,H.Je´gou,J.Mairal,P.Bojanowski,and [43] T. Wu, Y. Zhang, X. Wang, X. Zhou, G. Zheng, Z. Qi, Y. Shan,
A.Joulin,"Emergingpropertiesinself-supervisedvisiontransformers," and X. Li, "Customcrafter: Customized video generation with preinProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFinternationalconferenceoncomputer serving motion and concept composition abilities," arXiv preprint
vision,2021,pp.9650-9660. arXiv:2408.13239,2024.
[23] H.Chen,Y.Zhang,S.Wu,X.Wang,X.Duan,Y.Zhou,andW.Zhu, [44] Y.Zhang,Q.Wang,F.Jiang,Y.Fan,M.Xu,andY.Qi,"Fantasyid:Face
"Disenbooth:Identity-preservingdisentangledtuningforsubject-driven knowledge enhanced id-preserving video generation," arXiv preprint
text-to-imagegeneration,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2305.03374,2023. arXiv:2502.13995,2025.
[24] Y.Wei,Y.Zhang,Z.Ji,J.Bai,L.Zhang,andW.Zuo,"Elite:Encoding
[45] S. Yuan, J. Huang, X. He, Y. Ge, Y. Shi, L. Chen, J. Luo, and
visualconceptsintotextualembeddingsforcustomizedtext-to-image
L. Yuan, "Identity-preserving text-to-video generation by frequency
generation,"inProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFInternationalConference
decomposition," in Proceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern
onComputerVision,2023,pp.15943-15953.
RecognitionConference,2025,pp.12978-12988.
[25] J.Shi,W.Xiong,Z.Lin,andH.J.Jung,"Instantbooth:Personalized
[46] Y. Wei, S. Zhang, H. Yuan, B. Gong, L. Tang, X. Wang, H. Qiu,
text-to-imagegenerationwithouttest-timefinetuning,"inProceedings
H. Li, S. Tan, Y. Zhang et al., "Dreamrelation: Relation-centric
oftheIEEE/CVFConferenceonComputerVisionandPatternRecogvideo customization," in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
nition,2024,pp.8543-8552.
ConferenceonComputerVision,2025,pp.12381-12393.
[26] N. Ruiz, Y. Li, V. Jampani, W. Wei, T. Hou, Y. Pritch, N. Wadhwa,
[47] Z. Wang, A. Li, E. Xie, L. Zhu, Y. Guo, Q. Dou, and Z. Li,
M. Rubinstein, and K. Aberman, "Hyperdreambooth: Hypernetworks
"Customvideo: Customizing text-to-video generation with multiple
forfastpersonalizationoftext-to-imagemodels,"inProceedingsofthe
subjects,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2401.09962,2024.
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2024,pp.6527-6536. [48] H.Chen,X.Wang,Y.Zhang,Y.Zhou,Z.Zhang,S.Tang,andW.Zhu,
[27] M. Hua, J. Liu, F. Ding, W. Liu, J. Wu, and Q. He, "Dreamtuner: "Disenstudio: Customized multi-subject text-to-video generation with
Singleimageisenoughforsubject-drivengeneration,"arXivpreprint disentangledspatialcontrol,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2405.12796,2024.
arXiv:2312.13691,2023. [49] T.-S. Chen, A. Siarohin, W. Menapace, Y. Fang, K. S. Lee, I. Sko-
[28] Y.Han,J.Zhu,K.He,X.Chen,Y.Ge,W.Li,X.Li,J.Zhang,C.Wang, rokhodov, K. Aberman, J.-Y. Zhu, M.-H. Yang, and S. Tulyakov,
and Y. Liu, "Face adapter for pre-trained diffusion models with fine- "Multi-subject open-set personalization in video generation," arXiv
grained id and attribute control," arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.12970, preprintarXiv:2501.06187,2025.
2024. [50] Y. Huang, Z. Yuan, Q. Liu, Q. Wang, X. Wang, R. Zhang, P. Wan,
[29] Y. Gu, X. Wang, J. Z. Wu, Y. Shi, Y. Chen, Z. Fan, W. Xiao, D. Zhang, and K. Gai, "Conceptmaster: Multi-concept video cusR. Zhao, S. Chang, W. Wu et al., "Mix-of-show: Decentralized low- tomizationondiffusiontransformermodelswithouttest-timetuning,"
rankadaptationformulti-conceptcustomizationofdiffusionmodels," arXivpreprintarXiv:2501.04698,2025.
AdvancesinNeuralInformationProcessingSystems,vol.36,2024. [51] C.-P.Huang,Y.-S.Wu,H.-K.Chung,K.-P.Chang,F.-E.Yang,andY.-
[30] G.Xiao,T.Yin,W.T.Freeman,F.Durand,andS.Han,"Fastcomposer: C. F. Wang, "Videomage: Multi-subject and motion customization of
Tuning-free multi-subject image generation with localized attention," text-to-videodiffusionmodels,"inProceedingsoftheComputerVision
arXivpreprintarXiv:2305.10431,2023. andPatternRecognitionConference,2025,pp.17603-17612.
[52] J.Wu,X.Li,Y.Zeng,J.Zhang,Q.Zhou,Y.Li,Y.Tong,andK.Chen, [73] W.-D. K. Ma, J. P. Lewis, and W. B. Kleijn, "Trailblazer: Tra-
"Motionbooth: Motion-aware customized text-to-video generation," jectory control for diffusion-based video generation," arXiv preprint
arXivpreprintarXiv:2406.17758,2024. arXiv:2401.00896,2023.
[53] X. Shi, Z. Huang, F.-Y. Wang, W. Bian, D. Li, Y. Zhang, M. Zhang, [74] C.Chen,J.Shu,L.Chen,G.He,C.Wang,andY.Li,"Motion-zero:
K. C. Cheung, S. See, H. Qin et al., "Motion-i2v: Consistent and Zero-shotmovingobjectcontrolframeworkfordiffusion-basedvideo
controllableimage-to-videogenerationwithexplicitmotionmodeling," generation,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2401.10150,2024.
inACMSIGGRAPH2024ConferencePapers,2024,pp.1-11. [75] Y.Huang,Y.Chen,L.Ding,X.Zhang,W.Dai,J.Zou,H.Xiong,and
[54] W.Wu,Z.Li,Y.Gu,R.Zhao,Y.He,D.J.Zhang,M.Z.Shou,Y.Li, Q.Tian,"Im-zero:Instance-levelmotioncontrollablevideogeneration
T. Gao, and D. Zhang, "Draganything: Motion control for anything in a zero-shot manner," in Proceedings of the Computer Vision and
using entity representation," in European Conference on Computer PatternRecognitionConference,2025,pp.7265-7275.
Vision. Springer,2025,pp.331-348. [76] S. Yin, C. Wu, J. Liang, J. Shi, H. Li, G. Ming, and N. Duan,
[55] S. Bahmani, X. Liu, W. Yifan, I. Skorokhodov, V. Rong, Z. Liu, "Dragnuwa: Fine-grained control in video generation by integrating
X.Liu,J.J.Park,S.Tulyakov,G.Wetzsteinetal.,"Tc4d:Trajectory- text,image,andtrajectory,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2308.08089,2023.
conditioned text-to-4d generation," in European Conference on Com- [77] Y. Li, X. Wang, Z. Zhang, Z. Wang, Z. Yuan, L. Xie, Y. Zou, and
puterVision. Springer,2025,pp.53-72. Y. Shan, "Image conductor: Precision control for interactive video
[56] K. Namekata, S. Bahmani, Z. Wu, Y. Kant, I. Gilitschenski, and synthesis,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2406.15339,2024.
D.B.Lindell,"Sg-i2v:Self-guidedtrajectorycontrolinimage-to-video [78] Z. Zhang, F. Long, Z. Qiu, Y. Pan, W. Liu, T. Yao, and T. Mei,
generation,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2411.04989,2024. "Motionpro: A precise motion controller for image-to-video genera-
[57] D.Geng,C.Herrmann,J.Hur,F.Cole,S.Zhang,T.Pfaff,T.Lopez- tion,"inProceedingsoftheComputerVisionandPatternRecognition
Guevara, Y. Aytar, M. Rubinstein, C. Sun et al., "Motion prompting: Conference,2025,pp.27957-27967.
Controllingvideogenerationwithmotiontrajectories,"inProceedings [79] Z.Zhang,J.Liao,M.Li,Z.Dai,B.Qiu,S.Zhu,L.Qin,andW.Wang,
oftheComputerVisionandPatternRecognitionConference,2025,pp. "Tora:Trajectory-orienteddiffusiontransformerforvideogeneration,"
1-12. inProceedingsoftheComputerVisionandPatternRecognitionCon-
[58] G. Zheng, T. Li, R. Jiang, Y. Lu, T. Wu, and X. Li, "Cami2v: ference,2025,pp.2063-2073.
Camera-controlled image-to-video diffusion model," arXiv preprint
[80] Q. Li, Z. Xing, R. Wang, H. Zhang, Q. Dai, and Z. Wu, "MagicarXiv:2410.15957,2024.
motion: Controllable video generation with dense-to-sparse trajectory
[59] T. Hu, J. Zhang, R. Yi, Y. Wang, J. Weng, H. Huang, Y. Wang, guidance,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2503.16421,2025.
andL.Ma,"Comd:Training-freevideomotiontransferwithcamera-
[81] H.Li,L.Jiang,X.Xiao,T.Wang,H.Yi,B.Wu,andD.Cai,"Magiobject motion disentanglement," in Proceedings of the 32nd ACM
cid: Hybrid preference optimization for id-consistent and dynamicInternationalConferenceonMultimedia,2024,pp.3459-3468.
preserved video customization," arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.12689,
[60] H.Yesiltepe,T.H.S.Meral,C.Dunlop,andP.Yanardag,"Motionshop:
2025.
Zero-shot motion transfer in video diffusion models with mixture of
[82] L.Shen,W.Jiang,Y.Zhu,J.Li,T.Ge,Z.Cao,andB.Zheng,"Identityscoreguidance,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2412.05355,2024.
preservingimage-to-videogenerationviareward-guidedoptimization,"
[61] M. Niu, X. Cun, X. Wang, Y. Zhang, Y. Shan, and Y. Zheng,
arXivpreprintarXiv:2510.14255,2025.
"Mofa-video:Controllableimageanimationviagenerativemotionfield
[83] X.Meng,Z.Zhang,Z.Zhang,J.Liao,L.Qin,andW.Wang,"Identityadaptions in frozen image-to-video diffusion model," in European
grpo:Optimizingmulti-humanidentity-preservingvideogenerationvia
ConferenceonComputerVision. Springer,2025,pp.111-128.
reinforcementlearning,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2510.14256,2025.
[62] H.Jeong,J.Chang,G.Y.Park,andJ.C.Ye,"Dreammotion:Space-
[84] B. Zhu, Y. Jiang, B. Xu, S. Yang, M. Yin, Y. Wu, H. Sun, and
time self-similar score distillation for zero-shot video editing," in
Z.Wu,"Aligninganimevideogenerationwithhumanfeedback,"arXiv
EuropeanConferenceonComputerVision. Springer,2024,pp.358preprintarXiv:2504.10044,2025.
376.
[85] R. Rafailov, A. Sharma, E. Mitchell, C. D. Manning, S. Ermon, and
[63] X. Li, X. Jia, Q. Wang, H. Diao, M. Ge, P. Li, Y. He, and H. Lu,
C. Finn, "Direct preference optimization: Your language model is
"Motrans:Customizedmotiontransferwithtext-drivenvideodiffusion
secretly a reward model," Advances in neural information processing
models,"inProceedingsofthe32ndACMInternationalConferenceon
systems,vol.36,pp.53728-53741,2023.
Multimedia,2024,pp.3421-3430.
[86] Z.Shao,P.Wang,Q.Zhu,R.Xu,J.Song,X.Bi,H.Zhang,M.Zhang,
[64] W. Feng, T. Qi, J. Liu, M. Sun, P. Tu, T. Ma, F. Dai, S. Zhao,
Y.Li,Y.Wuetal.,"Deepseekmath:Pushingthelimitsofmathematical
S. Zhou, and Q. He, "I2vcontrol: Disentangled and unified video
motionsynthesiscontrol,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2411.17765,2024.
reasoninginopenlanguagemodels,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2402.03300,
2024.
[65] G. Y. Park, H. Jeong, S. W. Lee, and J. C. Ye, "Spectral motion
alignment for video motion transfer using diffusion models," arXiv [87] J.Xu,X.Liu,Y.Wu,Y.Tong,Q.Li,M.Ding,J.Tang,andY.Dong,
preprintarXiv:2403.15249,2024. "Imagereward: Learning and evaluating human preferences for text-
[66] H.Jeong,G.Y.Park,andJ.C.Ye,"Vmc:Videomotioncustomization to-image generation," Advances in Neural Information Processing
usingtemporalattentionadaptionfortext-to-videodiffusionmodels," Systems,vol.36,pp.15903-15935,2023.
inProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVFConferenceonComputerVisionand [88] X. Mi, W. Yu, J. Lian, S. Jie, R. Zhong, Z. Liu, G. Zhang, Z. Zhou,
PatternRecognition,2024,pp.9212-9221. Z.Xu,Y.Zhouetal.,"Videogenerationmodelsaregoodlatentreward
[67] Y. Ren, Y. Zhou, J. Yang, J. Shi, D. Liu, F. Liu, M. Kwon, and models,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2511.21541,2025.
A. Shrivastava, "Customize-a-video: One-shot motion customization [89] W. Zhao, L. Bai, Y. Rao, J. Zhou, and J. Lu, "Unipc: A unified
of text-to-video diffusion models," arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.14780, predictor-correctorframeworkforfastsamplingofdiffusionmodels,"
2024. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 36, pp.
[68] D. Yatim, R. Fridman, O. Bar-Tal, Y. Kasten, and T. Dekel, "Space- 49842-49869,2023.
time diffusion features for zero-shot text-driven motion transfer," in [90] Z. Teed and J. Deng, "Raft: Recurrent all-pairs field transforms for
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and opticalflow,"inEuropeanconferenceoncomputervision. Springer,
PatternRecognition,2024,pp.8466-8476. 2020,pp.402-419.
[69] L. Wang, G. Shen, Y. Liang, X. Tao, P. Wan, D. Zhang, Y. Li, and [91] Y.Zhang,X.Huang,J.Ma,Z.Li,Z.Luo,Y.Xie,Y.Qin,T.Luo,Y.Li,
Y. Chen, "Motion inversion for video customization," arXiv preprint S.Liuetal.,"Recognizeanything:Astrongimagetaggingmodel,"in
arXiv:2403.20193,2024. Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
[70] R.Wu,L.Chen,T.Yang,C.Guo,C.Li,andX.Zhang,"Lamp:Learn PatternRecognition,2024,pp.1724-1732.
amotionpatternforfew-shot-basedvideogeneration,"arXivpreprint [92] A.Yang,A.Li,B.Yang,B.Zhang,B.Hui,B.Zheng,B.Yu,C.Gao,
arXiv:2310.10769,2023. C. Huang, C. Lv et al., "Qwen3 technical report," arXiv preprint
[71] Y.Jain,A.Nasery,V.Vineet,andH.Behl,"Peekaboo:Interactivevideo arXiv:2505.09388,2025.
generation via masked-diffusion," in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF [93] S.Bai,Y.Cai,R.Chen,K.Chen,X.Chen,Z.Cheng,L.Deng,W.Ding,
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024, pp. C.Gao,C.Ge,W.Ge,Z.Guo,Q.Huang,J.Huang,F.Huang,B.Hui,
8079-8088. S.Jiang,Z.Li,M.Li,M.Li,K.Li,Z.Lin,J.Lin,X.Liu,J.Liu,C.Liu,
[72] S. Yang, L. Hou, H. Huang, C. Ma, P. Wan, D. Zhang, X. Chen, Y.Liu,D.Liu,S.Liu,D.Lu,R.Luo,C.Lv,R.Men,L.Meng,X.Ren,
and J.Liao, "Direct-a-video:Customized videogeneration withuser- X. Ren, S. Song, Y. Sun, J. Tang, J. Tu, J. Wan, P. Wang, P. Wang,
directed camera movement and object motion," in ACM SIGGRAPH Q. Wang, Y. Wang, T. Xie, Y. Xu, H. Xu, J. Xu, Z. Yang, M. Yang,
2024ConferencePapers,2024,pp.1-12. J. Yang, A. Yang, B. Yu, F. Zhang, H. Zhang, X. Zhang, B. Zheng,
H.Zhong,J.Zhou,F.Zhou,J.Zhou,Y.Zhu,andK.Zhu,"Qwen3-vl
technicalreport,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2511.21631,2025.
[94] S. Liu, Z. Zeng, T. Ren, F. Li, H. Zhang, J. Yang, Q. Jiang, C. Li,
J.Yang,H.Suetal.,"Groundingdino:Marryingdinowithgrounded
pre-trainingforopen-setobjectdetection,"inEuropeanconferenceon
computervision. Springer,2024,pp.38-55.
[95] N. Ravi, V. Gabeur, Y.-T. Hu, R. Hu, C. Ryali, T. Ma, H. Khedr,
R.Ra¨dle,C.Rolland,L.Gustafsonetal.,"Sam2:Segmentanything
inimagesandvideos,"arXivpreprintarXiv:2408.00714,2024.
[96] N.Karaev,Y.Makarov,J.Wang,N.Neverova,A.Vedaldi,andC.Rupprecht, "Cotracker3: Simpler and better point tracking by pseudolabelling real videos," in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
ConferenceonComputerVision,2025,pp.6013-6022.
[97] M.Bain,A.Nagrani,G.Varol,andA.Zisserman,"Frozenintime:A
jointvideoandimageencoderforend-to-endretrieval,"inProceedings
of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision, 2021,
pp.1728-1738.
[98] K. Soomro, A. R. Zamir, and M. Shah, "Ucf101: A dataset of
101 human actions classes from videos in the wild," arXiv preprint
arXiv:1212.0402,2012.
[99] J.Pont-Tuset,F.Perazzi,S.Caelles,P.Arbela´ez,A.Sorkine-Hornung,
andL.VanGool,"The2017davischallengeonvideoobjectsegmentation,"arXivpreprintarXiv:1704.00675,2017.
[100] L. Huang, X. Zhao, and K. Huang, "Got-10k: A large high-diversity
benchmarkforgenericobjecttrackinginthewild,"IEEEtransactions
onpatternanalysisandmachineintelligence,vol.43,no.5,pp.15621577,2019.
[101] I.Loshchilov,"Decoupledweightdecayregularization,"arXivpreprint
arXiv:1711.05101,2017.
[102] J. Ho and T. Salimans, "Classifier-free diffusion guidance," arXiv
preprintarXiv:2207.12598,2022.
[103] Z. Jiang, Z. Han, C. Mao, J. Zhang, Y. Pan, and Y. Liu, "Vace: Allin-one video creation and editing," arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.07598,
2025.
[104] J.Deng,J.Guo,N.Xue,andS.Zafeiriou,"Arcface:Additiveangular
marginlossfordeepfacerecognition,"inProceedingsoftheIEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2019, pp.
4690-4699.
[105] R. A. Bradley and M. E. Terry, "Rank analysis of incomplete block
designs:I.themethodofpairedcomparisons,"Biometrika,vol.39,no.
3/4,pp.324-345,1952.
[106] J. Skalse, N. Howe, D. Krasheninnikov, and D. Krueger, "Defining
andcharacterizingrewardgaming,"inAdvancesinNeuralInformation
ProcessingSystems,S.Koyejo,S.Mohamed,A.Agarwal,D.Belgrave,
K.Cho,andA.Oh,Eds.,vol.35. CurranAssociates,Inc.,2022,pp.
9460-9471.